Before we begin our program this morning, we have an announcement.
We want all to hear, take note of.
We would like to remind you that no video streaming or recordings of any kind are permitted.
Any notes taken, whether hard copy or electronic, should not be forwarded to anyone else.
So we know that you'll take note of that announcement.
Now that you're all seated, we'll ask you to stand.
And sing song number 75, our reasons for joy, based on Matthew chapter 5, verse 12,
that song number 75.
Our song gave us a question that it's impossible for us to answer at this stage.
And that is how deep are his thoughts.
Jehovah thinks deeply, and none of us have that ability to match the thinking of God.
Everything started with a thought from the Jehovah.
He thought about creating, and the first creation, as we all know, was the Logus.
And then after the Logus, we find myriads of angels being created by God.
And of course, Jesus right alongside their with him, listening, watching, doing what God has him to do.
And then finally, there comes another thought, and that is mankind, to be placed on this earth.
But first of all, there has to be an earth.
So God brings about that creation, and that we have a beautiful earth here today.
It's going to be much prettier in the days ahead.
And the crowning, of course, of the earth's creation is that of man himself.
We were created in the image of God, and we thanked Jehovah for that wonderful thought,
that entered his mind, to create a beautiful planet,
and then to put each one of us on it, along with billions of others.
So this is a wonderful day for us to start off thinking about the thoughts that originate with Jehovah.
This is graduation day for the 137th class of Gilead, and what a day is going to be.
Jehovah always thinks good thoughts, never bad thoughts.
His thoughts are always good.
And we strive to think like God, but we just can't master such thinking.
Open your Bibles, please, to Isaiah.
And let's look at the 55th chapter, verses 8 and 9.
It says, for my thoughts are not your thoughts, and your ways are not my ways,
declared Jehovah.
For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so my ways are higher than your ways,
and my thoughts than your thoughts.
So we strive to think like God, and He will help us to do just that.
But now to benefit from God's thinking, His thoughts, we need to love them.
It's not just to hear them.
It's not just to receive them, but it's to love the thinking of God.
And how can we love the thinking of God if we fail to meditate on the thoughts of God?
So we have to let them sink down deep into our hearts, the wonderful thinking of God.
So we should feel about them just like the Psalmists did.
And how did the Psalmist feel?
Well, let's turn to the Book of Psalms, the 139 Psalm, and look at verse 17.
Now just the first part of verse 17.
So to me, how precious your thoughts are.
Oh God, how vast is the sum of them?
Is that the way you feel you gilly at this graduate soon?
That they're precious, these thoughts that originate with God.
His thoughts are above ours.
There's no way that we can reach the thinking of God.
But we strive desperately to do just that.
But before we start down any road, we need to ask ourselves this question.
Where does the road lead me?
Where am I going?
How will I end up?
What's there at the end of the road?
Well, we need to ask God.
We need to get God's thoughts on it.
We're starting down the road.
Now we need to find out from Jehovah just to where this road that I'm about to take is going to lead me.
For several months, you students sitting down here in front of me have been filling your minds with God's thoughts.
Now before you ever got here, you were filling your mind to a degree with God's thoughts.
But it's increased hasn't it since you've been here.
You've got a deeper appreciation of the thinking of God.
And you've found that through a study of the Bible.
So that's why you're here so that you can follow the line of reason in thinking that originates in the mind of God.
Now like the rest of us, you've only scratched the surface of the mind of God.
Just the surface.
In fact, Job 26, 14 says, the fringes of his way.
What does that mean?
Well, you haven't gone very far.
You're just on the border, just the edge of his ways, his thinking.
Here's an example.
You may be walking by a restaurant and you get a tantalizing smell that comes out of the restaurant.
Maybe it's a bread baking, wonderful smell, isn't it?
But you want to do a little bit more than just smell the aroma.
You want to taste the product.
And that's what we want to do.
But right now, we're just at the fringes.
We've just scratched the surface.
We're just smelling.
We're going to take some time to move inside the mind of God and really taste what it is all about.
We're going to have to leave here knowing a lot more than we did when we came.
And we will.
We can't attend the meeting without appreciating the Word of God just a little bit more than we did before.
We walked through the door.
But now you're going to graduate today.
It's no doubt about that.
But it will not be from high school in the college.
It will be from preschool to kindergarten.
That's all.
You know another word for kindergarten, children, if all it means children.
Usually from four to six years old, they tell us.
That's kindergarten.
Well, we're all children in the eyes of God.
So we invite you.
Sit back with the rest of us.
Relax and listen.
Add a little more to what you already know from the bottomest pit called the mind of God.
To continue with our program this morning, we invite you to think about the following theme.
The fruitage of the spirit is patience.
This will be presented by brother John Larson, a United States branch committee member.
It's the fourth listed aspect of the fruitage of the spirit and the only one that changed
in English with the revision of the New World translation.
And that quality is patience.
But the thrust of this talk is the application of that quality in two areas.
Number one, patience with Jehovah, number two, patience with ourselves.
Now we talk about patience with Jehovah.
That might sound a little sacrilegious.
After all, Jehovah is very patient with us, but in what way are we patient with him?
It's in the manner that's described for us here in the book of 1 Peter, chapter 5.
1 Peter, chapter 5, and verse number 10.
1 Peter 5, 10, it says, but after you have suffered a little while, the God of all undeserved
kindness who called you to his everlasting glory and union with Christ will himself finish
your training.
He will make you firm.
He will make you strong.
He will firmly ground you.
Now what a blessing we have to have the God of all undeserved kindness serve as our
trainer.
And likely you felt that way during these past five months in Gilead.
But did you notice at the beginning of the verse, it also says after you have suffered
a little while, maybe you felt a little of that during the past five months too.
But the thought is, this is a process.
It involves suffering at times and it requires patience with our trainer, Jehovah.
And how important is that quality?
So we'd like to just focus briefly on one individual who went through this training
process.
And we can read about him a little further back in the book of Hebrews, chapter 6, and
verse 15.
Hebrews, chapter 6, and verse 15.
So after Abraham had shown patience, he obtained this promise.
See how important it was?
It meant the reward for him, obtaining the promise, the exercise of this quality.
And we learn a lot about this quality of patience from Abraham in his life.
For example, when Jehovah told Abraham that he was going to have a child by his wife,
Sarah, the account says that Abraham laughed.
And then it says he asked the question, will a man a hundred years old have a child born
to him?
And will Sarah, a woman ninety years old, give birth?
Now the scriptures assure us that Abraham was not wavering in the lack of faith.
But he must have wondered, how in the world is this going to happen given our circumstances?
A little later, Jehovah's angel approached Abraham and told him what Jehovah was going
to do to Sodom and Gomorrah.
Now Abraham had a boatload of questions, including, will the judge of all the earth not do it
is right?
But Jehovah was training him, and Abraham was patiently learning from Jehovah.
And then one day, when Jehovah came to him and said, take please your only son whom you
so love and offer him up as a burn offering, no questions.
Abraham as Romans chapter 4 verse 21 tells us, was fully convinced that what he had promised
he was also able to do, including resurrecting his son Isaac from the dead if necessary.
Abraham was learning from his trainer.
Now you friends have gone through a five month training program with the God of all undeserved
kindness.
Some of you will be sent to a foreign assignment where you're going to have to adjust to a different
culture, different ways of doing things.
Others of you may return to your previous assignment, but with different responsibilities.
And definitely all of you with much higher expectations for yourself.
But remember, the fruitage of the Spirit is patience.
The kind of patience that Abraham manifested while Jehovah, his trainer, was making him
firm and strong.
And that relates to our second point, which is patience with yourselves.
Because Abraham, he faced conflict in his family, strains in his marriage.
He had his own human weaknesses, all of this requiring patience with himself.
Now maybe when you get to your assignment, the way that you're adjusting to a completely
new environment, new culture, new way of doing things, or if you return where you came
from, maybe the way you're adapting with all these higher expectations for yourself is
not what you hope for.
And you could, in effect, throw your hands in the air and say, with all this beautiful
training that I had in Gilead, what's wrong with me?
Or even what's wrong with our marriage?
You know, my wife and I recently returned from a year and a half assignment in Mexico,
a year and a half.
That's not a long time compared with many right here in this audience who have served
a whole lot longer in a foreign assignment.
But it was our first time to experience such a thing.
And it was a beautiful experience, but early on in the process, we were, after a week
of adapting to new culture, a different way of doing things, completely different environment.
And Friday evening, Tamara and I had a little blow-up between ourselves, one of the most
difficult nights in our marriage.
But you know, we learned two things from that experience.
Number one, we came to find out that our reactions were more normal than we knew.
And we might just illustrate it with a little house plant.
What happens when you take a house plant up by the roots, you put it in a new pot with
completely different soil?
As you wonder if the thing is going to survive, don't you?
But gradually, it starts to acclimate to the soil, it starts to grow in flourish.
The same is true with you.
To expect that we're going to take on a new assignment or even return to a previous
assignment with all these higher expectations and hit the ground running, so to speak, it's
just not realistic.
And we are not immune to human feelings.
So there's no need to throw our hands up in the air or lose patience with ourselves.
Your reactions will probably be more normal than you know.
The second thing that we learned from that experience is going back to Hebrews chapter
6.
You notice in verse 11, it mentions the word industriousness.
And then verse 12, it says, so that you may not become sluggish, but be imitators of those
who threw faith and patience in here at the promises.
You know, the hardest thing that we could have done the next morning was go out and service,
but it was the best thing that we could have done.
And it taught us that Jehovah can continue to mold us and refine us if we don't get down
on ourselves, but we keep doing what we know we're supposed to be doing.
To expect perfection out of yourself is totally unrealistic and only leads to disappointment.
The fruitage of the Spirit is patience.
And this patience with Jehovah and with ourselves, what does it result in?
Well, you may have noticed the first text that we read that last phrase in first Peter
chapter 5 verse 10 was added with the revision of the New World translation, wasn't it?
He will firmly ground you.
It may remind you of the illustration of the little plant.
Your roots will go deep, keeping you stable and balanced while your trainer makes you
firm and strong.
And meanwhile, as the God of all the undeserved kindness finishes your training, remember
the fruitage of the Spirit is patience.
I certainly want to thank you, brother Larson, for those fine thoughts.
Get our graduation program off to a very fine start.
Next on the program, we have brother Anthony Mars, who serves as a member of the governing
body.
And his theme is may your heart remain humble and live forever.
I invite you to take your copy of the Bible, or you may be using a tablet.
And turn to Psalm 22, this is where we find the scriptural thought for the theme of this
particular talk on the program, Psalm 22.
And you'll notice the beat part of verse 26, Psalm 22 and the beat part of verse 26.
Those seeking Jehovah will praise him and notice, may you enjoy life forever.
And then if you take it literally, soon to be graduates, notice the footnote, may your
heart live forever.
So we are emphasizing the figure of heart.
Nonetheless, there are many hearts right here that the literal heart may beat forever.
You might not have to experience it as there will be a great crowd survive the great
tribulation, but primarily we're addressing the figure of heart.
So if your figure of heart is going to live forever, then you have to be humble.
And that means you're going to be advancing as a Christian.
And if you're not humble, you can't advance.
You lose your usefulness to Jehovah God.
And that's happened to some fine individual brothers and sisters over the years I've
seen with my own eyes.
And it's quite interesting what Peter had to say and we know how often we go to his example,
the voice of experience, if you will.
And let's look at his second letter here, second Peter chapter one.
And this has to do with, when you get to your assignments to continue to advance, it's
a very serious and grave issue.
Now second Peter chapter one and verse nine, Peter writes for anyone, so that covers everybody
listening, lacking these things is blind, shutting his eyes to the light, and has become
forgetful of his cleansing from his sins of long ago.
And what comes to mind right away likely is what's these things that makes him blind
if he's not adhering to him, lacking them.
Well I call these the blueprints for life versus 5th or 8th of the same chapter.
They're listed nicely, faith virtue, knowledge, self-control, endurance, godly devotion,
brotherly affection and love.
So this is a deliberate blindness on our part.
This is where you make the choice to no longer advance as a Christian.
And the Watchtower decades ago was very straightforward on this matter.
And I'm going to read it right from the May 1st, 1980 Watchtower page 24, very frank.
The individual who fails to make spiritual progress, whose profession of faith lacks
the footage of a Christlike personality is spiritually blind.
Pretty straightforward, don't you agree?
Now notice it gets stronger.
He does not see what it means to be a Christian.
This blindness is deliberate for his acceptance of the good news required that he continue
to work in becoming more like his master.
Whoa.
That's so rare isn't anyone listening that that doesn't hit right between the eyes.
It's very humbling to try to be like Christ Jesus.
And yet it's a good thing, I was really proud of Brother Lars and my to confess to this
huge audience.
Don't you love them?
And I'm not doing any confessing so, so don't worry.
Maybe I'll interview Brother Jackson and let him confess a little bit.
But the honesty there to advance, and that's what James talked about, confessing her sins
to one another, while a proud man could never do what John just did.
Because the sin of pride is something we want to caution you about, not that I've seen
this in the class, I'm not saying that, but the sin of pride leads to arrogance.
So we're going to give you an extreme example and scripture of what it can end up like.
You can see pride, it's just like rose bush, it looks beautiful.
But if a worm gets in there and starts getting to the root of the rose bush, it will bloom
for a while, looks nice as soon as it's dead.
That's what pride does.
And turn to Acts chapter 12 when you see, this is an extreme example.
Even though we've had some presumptuous people in this organization years past that kind
of remind me of this individual, Acts chapter 12, and verse 21 through 23.
Acts 12, 21.
On a set day, Hared clothed himself with royal raiment and sat down on the judgment seat
and began giving them a public address.
Now Josephus reveals, and this was in the imitate of faith publication, that it was made
out of silver, this is a garment, so that when the sun hit him, he just glistened.
So not only was his speech going on, but he looked like a star.
And so 22, then the people who were assembled began shouting, a God's voice and not a man's.
How do you think he felt at that moment?
Yeah, yeah.
Got that right.
Because there are a lot of men that really think of themselves as God's.
Well, how did Jehovah react?
Verse 23, instantly, the angel of Jehovah struck him, and here's why, lesson, because
he did not give the glory to God.
And he was eaten up with worms and died.
This egomaniac suffered this gruesome death because of the sin of pride, and in his case
it elevated all the way to arrogance.
This is an absolute egomaniac.
Now let's contrast him with Peter, and we're going to serve this picture.
Look at the screen, the others are listening in, and we'll be able to not have to worry
about that.
So look at the picture here, and this is an imitate of faith publication.
This is that experience, and it's so sobering.
Now Peter loved Jesus.
Jesus loved Peter, but he also loved him enough to rebuke him when necessary.
So this is the occasion when he points at him, and he looked at his disciples, and he says,
don't get behind me Satan, because you don't think God's thoughts.
You think those of men.
So he let him have it right between the eyes.
Now good question, how did Peter react from this rebuke?
Did he get angry?
Did he?
Sulk?
No, he took it like a spiritual man, and he corrected himself.
So keep this thought in mind, it was in the imitate, the faith book, and this goes for
all of us.
All those who follow Christ will need correction at times, only if we humbly accept discipline
and learn from it, can we continue to grow closer to Jesus Christ and his Father, Jehovah
God?
See, because human thinking can sometimes take priority over godly thinking, you might
even sincerely feel like you're trying to help, but you can become a proponent of Satan's
purpose if you're not careful.
See, good warning, avoid it like the plague.
Now note Peter's counsel here in 1 Peter chapter 5, 1 Peter chapter 5, and we want you
to take this inspired thought with you to your assignments, and it's good reminder for
all of us, 1 Peter chapter 5 verse 5.
In the same way, you younger men be in subjection to the older men, notice, but all of you
clothe yourselves with humility toward one another, and he gives the reason because God
opposes the haughty ones, but he gives undeserved kindness to the humble ones.
The humble hearts will live forever.
See, that's why we can treat you to remain humble and your hearts will live forever.
So you actually, every day, every waking moment, as soon as you get up in the morning,
clothe yourself with humility, get ready for the day, put it on, and you're going to have
a better day because you're clothe with humility.
A lot of things can happen wherever you are serving, but if you're clothe with humility,
it's going to make it easier to bear.
So, something else that some don't seem to get clear in their minds, would you really
want God opposing you?
Well, if you lack humility, guess what?
And I've noticed this, frankly, you're just for Bethel's service, and I love the privilege
to serve with Bethel.
If you don't have humility, you can't stay here.
You're going to be miserable.
You've got to overseer's everywhere, everywhere, okay, where you're going, you know?
So, but the humble love it, and I look at him, if you're not happy at Bethel, I mean other
than you're having an off day, that's human, probably you've got a humility problem.
Most of the time, the humble love sacred service, and can put up with just about anything.
See?
Don't be like this elder many decades ago, not a long time ago.
So, the circuit officer and the elders on the body have concluded amongst other things,
but a major factor of disqualifying him is he's not humble.
So, he's appealing and he writes in, so it gets to the service department.
Dear brothers, they've removed me, and I want to appeal, because one of the things
they've said is that I lack humility.
And brothers, I am the humblest man I know, who's in his letter, you can't make this stuff
up.
So, not a good thing.
He was deleted.
How much better to go by that beautiful wise Scottish proverb?
Some power the gift would give us to see ourselves as others see us, from many a blunder,
it would free us.
Think about it, avoid a lot of blunders.
And I have learned things from people that didn't like me.
Can you believe it?
But I thought, well, let me look at it.
So you grow spiritually, so I'll be careful, especially some of you getting an added
amount of responsibility in your assignment, and just word of caution, my experience, and
I think my fellow members of the governing body would agree.
I'll find out if they don't later.
The more responsibility I've received in the earthly part of God's organization over
the years, the less authority I realize I have.
And you don't get more responsibility than being a member of the governing body.
But I, in the rest of us, feel the same way because we know who the real authority is.
Christ Jesus is in charge on Wednesdays in our committee meeting days.
Really?
Jehovah's in charge.
So keep that in mind.
You get more responsibility.
Remember the authority lies in Christ Jesus and Jehovah God.
When you get direction from the faithful and discrete slave, just say, God, help me to
do and implement this decision, say.
And we just entreat you, may your hearts remain humble, and may you enjoy life forever.
We say we want to thank you by the morse for that most humbling talk.
For the next few minutes, we encourage you, Gilead students, to ponder on the next theme.
He does not give the spirit sparingly, which will be presented by one of your instructors,
Brother Michael Burnett.
In my hand here, I have your photo album, and in reading it, looking it over, the last
page was something I felt was significant, especially in connection with this talk.
This is what you said in conclusion.
You said we spent five beautiful months together.
We become close friends, and we can agree with that.
We've learned how to serve Jehovah in a better way.
So when we have some difficulties or doubts, ask yourself this.
Is it easy?
No.
Is it possible?
You say yes.
Because and how?
Because of Holy Spirit.
And that really fits in nicely with this talk, because you are a product of Holy Spirit
as it were.
Your success is based on Jehovah's Holy Spirit.
Now when you think about when you first came to Gilead, and you met the student body,
and you started thinking and talking about yourselves and things that maybe you have experienced,
or they have experienced, then probably you begin to think, who am I?
Why am I even here?
But in addition to that, when you saw the curriculum, you probably went, oh my!
The reports, how am I going to do this?
Then the instructors came in, and we put you at peace.
But you know, there may be added responsibilities that have already been alluded to, and we
wanted to consider an example of a man who took on added responsibility and how he was
able to cope with it.
His name is Bezilell.
So if you open your Bibles to Exodus, Exodus 35, we're going to consider what experience
that he had, what responsibility that he took on, and how he was appointed to oversee
the construction of the Tabernacle.
This is Exodus 35, and we're starting with verse 30.
Then Moses said to the Israelites, see Jehovah has chosen Bezilell, the son of your
eye, the son of her of the tribe of Judah, he has filled him with the Spirit of God.
Now notice what that Spirit would enable him to do, giving him wisdom, understanding,
knowledge of every sort of craftsmanship, for making artistic designs, for working with
gold, silver, and copper, for cutting, setting stones, and for making all kinds of artistic
wood products, revised Bibles says to make ingenious products of every sort.
And he's put into his heart to teach, he and a whole lab, the son of a hisomac, of the
tribe of Dan.
He's filled them with skill to do all the work of a craftsman, an embroiderer, and a weaver
using blue thread, purple wool, scarlet material, fine linen, of a loom worker.
These men will do every sort of work and prepare every sort of design.
So this is the official appointment to build the tabernacle.
Now can you imagine how immense that project would be, and yet he accepted it, because
Jehovah says, I'm going to give you my Spirit.
Did he have any ability in this before?
We don't know.
He may have learned a trade in Egypt, but we do know this, and that is if you turn back
to Exodus chapter 1, Exodus 1, we're looking at verse 13 regarding his employment.
Consequently, the Egyptians forced the Israelites into harsh slavery.
They made their life bitter with hard labor as they worked with clay, mortar, and bricks.
So he was a brick maker.
We do know that.
And yet when you go back to Exodus 35, it's in verse 31 that Jehovah says, I will give
you the wisdom, the ability that you need, even if you're not an artisan as it were,
or a craftsman.
Verse 31 says, he filled him with the Spirit of God giving him wisdom, understanding, and
knowledge of every sort of craftsmanship.
And his work was beautiful and long-lasting.
For 500 years it existed, or a little under 500 years.
But now look at verse 34.
In addition to him being a craftsman, Jehovah in verse 34 put it into his heart to teach.
And that's what we have tried to do too here at Gilead.
We've tried to put it in your heart to teach.
Not just run through the scriptures, one after the other, but take a set of scriptures,
analyze them for brevity, clarity, and principled application.
And that's what we want you to do when you go back to the field.
This is the way that we want you to teach.
And if you will, then you'll fulfill your commission.
And that is to stabilize and strengthen the field and branch organization.
Your effects will be long-lasting and appreciated.
But when you take on new responsibilities, you may feel overwhelmed, maybe Bezel did.
You may say, well, I'm just a bricklayer.
That's all I am.
But we want to take you back to theocratic organization.
Remember in theocratic organization, we talked about a man named RJ Martin.
He was the factory overseer down in Brooklyn in the 20s.
And this is what he says about a responsibility that he was given.
He says this, a big rotary press came into our hands, came into the hands that knew nothing
about its construction and operation.
And that may be true of you in the future.
You may be given a responsibility that you know nothing about.
But the Lord knows how to quicken the minds of those who have committed their all to him.
You see, that's the point.
They've committed their all to him.
In a very few weeks, we were able to make the press hum.
It's still humming, doing the work that even its makers never knew it could do.
Jehovah's continued to bless such efforts to this very day.
So just remember, it was Jehovah's spirit who in heightened, which in heightened Bezel's
ability, his natural ability was heightened by Holy Spirit.
He elevated his natural ability.
And Jehovah will do the very same thing for you brothers.
Now what about you sisters?
Is there anything here for you?
Well, let's go back to Exodus 35.
We're going to focus in on verse 25, okay?
All the skilled women, and you're skilled, spun with their hands, and they brought what
they had spun, blew thread, purple wool, scarlet material, and fine linen.
And again, it says in verse 26, and all the skilled women whose hearts impelled them, spun
the goat hair.
Now if you go back to verse 35, this all fits.
You see, they supported the work that O'Holiab taught.
And Bezel El, 35, he's filled them, that's Bezel El and O'Holiab, with skilled to do all
the work of a craftsman, and then all this embroidering.
So these skilled women supported the building project.
And that's exactly what you've done.
All of you, gillied sisters, are skilled women.
And here's the point.
If you didn't support your husbands, your husbands would not be here.
The reason your husbands are going through gillied is because of you, your skilled women.
I think this quote here from the watchtower puts it nicely.
Jehovah gives his servants enough of his spirit to do the work that they're given to do.
He does not give them an inadequate measure of his spirit so that they're hampered in
the work that he's assigned to them.
Based on John 3 and verse 34, Jehovah does not give the spirit sparingly.
He gives you what you need.
So what's the point?
Take note of this, okay?
This is important.
You may see this again.
Here's the point.
Tempor your natural abilities with humility and an obedient spirit.
I'll repeat that.
And if you do, Jehovah will give you his spirit fully.
Thank you, brother Burnett, we'd certainly be lost without God's spirit.
We all need it, appreciate it.
For the next theme on our program, we have a question for you.
Will you dance with me?
No, not with me.
Let's see what this means as another of the instructors from the Theacradi Schools
Department.
Brother Mark Numer explains this intriguing question.
He was about 37 years old, a monarch, a celebrated soldier, a fearless
commander of mighty men.
But on this occasion, he chooses no royal garments, no crown, no grand entrance, nor does
he care if his expression of zeal for true worship causes others to lose respect for
him.
And we're referring to the time period when King David brought the Ark of the Covenant
to Jerusalem.
Now I know we discussed this briefly in class, but we didn't finish.
And now we will.
Why?
Because this inspired account has lessons that you need to learn and take to your assignments.
So let's open our Bibles now to 2nd Samuel, chapter 6, and we'll begin by reading verse
14, 2nd Samuel, chapter 6, and verse 14.
David was dancing around before Jehovah with all his might.
All the while David wore a linen effort, a linen robe.
David took off his imperial garb, put on this plain linen garment, an ordinary man among
ordinary people.
Verse 15 shows it was joyful, shouting, and sounds of the horn imagine the smiles on the
faces of people as they watch their king dance with them and come down to earth to their
level.
Verse 20, now Michael, his wife, comes into the picture.
She ridicules David's humility and says to him, now, and you danced with the slave girls
of your servants, you danced with these lowly people, how embarrassing, how humiliating,
David, what were you thinking?
And maybe David was thinking this.
I will honor these servants of mine the same way that Jehovah honors me, and perhaps he
reflected when Jehovah honored him as a little boy, a shepherd boy, a nobody.
And then he said to himself, how pleased Jehovah would be if I, the king, honor these
hard working servants, these slave girls, they work so hard.
What effect do you think it had on these slave girls, a humility of David on these slave
girls?
What effect do you think it had?
Would they ever forget that day?
They will talk about that day.
They will tell their children, they will tell their grandchildren, do you know, I danced
with the king, and the children would say, no, mother, you didn't dance with the king.
That's King David, I'm telling you, the king danced with me.
No.
Well, what did he wear?
He took off his imperial garb and he put on that linen robe and he came down to earth
and he danced with us.
I will never forget that day.
The king danced with me.
Application to you.
Will you dance with the slave girls?
That's the question and your attitude and how you treat others will cry resounding
yes or no to that very question.
For example, will you be known as one who was helpful to those with little or no responsibility?
Will you choose your friends based solely on their positions in the organization or will
you value others because of their spiritual qualities?
If you discern that you can make someone's life easier and make their work more effective,
what will you do?
Will you say, wasn't easy for me?
I didn't have it easy in the past, why should you have it easy?
You know, I had it tough in the past, I did without, now it's your turn.
Will you do that?
Will you rise above such fleshly thinking and be helpful?
If you're at Bethel, will you take an interest in those in the field?
For instance, will you, if you know someone who has had a difficult week, a difficult
month in the field, will you make contact with them, give them a word of encouragement?
In other words, will you be so absorbed in your work and your own problems that you
fail to notice the little sheep saying to you?
Will you dance with me?
And imagine the positive effect you can have on others, a field worker saying, the office
called me.
They did?
Yes.
To give encouragement, they wanted to check on me.
Imagine the Bethelite saying, my overseer visited me, they did.
He did?
Why?
Well, not to counsel me, but to shepherd me.
They actually read a scripture with me.
They gave some encouraging words.
They wanted to know how I was doing.
He acknowledged my difficult situation and asked if there was anything he could do to
help.
He acknowledged that and said, thank you for your endurance and your hard work under
these circumstances.
He sought me out in the dining room and said, will you eat lunch with me?
These are some of the ways you say, yes, one asked, will you dance with me?
Now as a sister, how are you involved?
How will you treat those dancing with the slave girls?
Now Michael, she ridiculed David Zeal.
She ridiculed his humility.
She felt his actions were inappropriate and undignified.
You learn a vital lesson there when your husband performs menial tasks or works hard so
as not to show himself superior to others.
Thank Jehovah.
You have a spiritual husband.
You have a husband that wants to imitate Jehovah God.
And when you do, you encourage him.
You help him.
You show a similar attitude of humility, too.
And in this way, do you know what you do?
You become a dancer.
And you dance as a lowly slave girl.
What else can we learn from David's example?
Let's read verse 22.
Same chapter, second Samuel 6, this time, verse 22, speaking to Michael, he says, now.
And you think that was something?
I will humble myself even more than this.
And become low even in my own eyes.
The slave girls, yes, that was one thing.
But I'm going to continue to become low in my own eyes.
You see, David was not just willing to be humble on this one occasion.
He wanted to maintain that humility.
It wasn't as if David said, you know, now I dance with the slave girls.
It was a great show.
I showed my humility.
Everybody saw me.
It's public.
That was great.
Now it's time for me to put on my royal garments, get my crown, show people who's in charge
around here.
I'm boss.
But I put on a great show.
No, no.
David was determined to continue to show this type of humility.
And he did just that.
He kept on serving Jehovah with humility.
So, years later, David humbled himself by showing loyal love to Mfibesheth.
Now loyal love is that love that is unique.
It's the love that descends from top to bottom.
We think about loyalty, we think about the attitude of one lower in rank toward a superior,
but not with the biblical expression of loyal love.
It is just the opposite.
It's the powerful being loyal to the weak, the needy, and the dependent.
David understood this and was not embarrassed to have this crippled Mfibesheth eat at his
table with handsome, absalom and beautiful Tamar and muscular Joab.
No wonder Jehovah God loved David and called him a man agreeable to my heart.
Why?
Because David was imitating Jehovah.
Why do we say that?
Because again, the basic idea of I will become low.
That expression is also used at Psalm 113, 6 and 7, the same idea to describe how Jehovah
comes down in rank to deal with lowly people.
So David was imitating Jehovah on a continual basis, not just a one-time act.
He maintained that lowly spirit throughout his life.
When his dignity was shredded, when his reputation was disgraced, when his authority was challenged,
when his kingship was threatened, when his very life was on the line, David didn't change.
This is the big point for you.
Why?
Because this is what happens.
You come to Gilead.
You learn these wonderful things.
You apply these Bible principles and you say how great it would be if everyone applied
these things.
If everyone did this, it would be utopia.
And you're convinced that this is right and it is.
You graduate.
You return to your assignments and you realize some are doing the opposite of what you have
been taught.
After a year or two, you realize, my, these are the ones with the privileges.
And a measure of authority.
Hmm.
What I learned in Gilead, that was good.
That was great.
That was perfect.
That was ideal for a classroom setting.
But it doesn't work in the real world.
Now what will you do?
You could begin to say, I'm trying so hard to apply this.
No one else is doing it.
Why should I continue to work so hard?
What will you do in that situation?
Will you allow the imperfections of others to sway your lowly attitude?
Or will you continue to imitate Jehovah God?
Continue in the way of humility.
Your goal is to imitate Jehovah God and to act the way he wants you to act.
And even though it might hurt, even though you might get pinched in the machinery, even
though it might not be easy, you want to be convinced that ultimately, if you do what
your Jehovah God wants you to do, if you imitate him and not be molded by the imperfections
of others, it will work out well for you.
Do not give up in doing what is right and applying the Bible principles as you've been taught.
So what do we want you to remember?
This, go to your assignments dressed in a plain linen robe.
No crown, no royal garments, no grand entrance, remain humble.
And remember, with more responsibility, it is a victory to do no harm.
You do no harm when you view yourself as a nobody, because a nobody does not hurt anybody.
When you think you're a somebody, you hurt everybody.
Display loyal love by dancing with the slave girls.
Make it your aim to continue to treat Jehovah's sheep the way he would treat Jehovah, the
way he would treat his people.
And be assured, it is our prayer that Jehovah give you the humility and the wisdom needed
to say yes when the slave girl asks you, will you dance with me?
I'm not much on dancing, but I'm going to try that.
Thank you very much, Brother Newmare.
For the next part on the program, I have a question for all present.
Will you sing with me?
You have to rise to do it.
So stand and sing song number 108, praise Jehovah for his kingdom based on Revelation 21-2.
That is song number 108.
Please be seated.
To continue with our program, we would now like to invite Brother William Samuelson, who
serves as an instructor for the Theocratic schools department.
He will present the following theme, witnessing on every appropriate occasion.
Our primary way of witnessing is, of course, the door-to-door ministry.
And Paul said an excellent example in doing this, but he did not limit his ministry to just
door-to-door or house-to-house.
Acts 17-17 comments on his taking advantage of an opportunity to witness in the marketplace.
He was waiting for Silas and Timothy to join him in Athens, and he went to the marketplace
and the count says he would reason with those who happened to be on hand.
Well our Gilead students did likewise, even before coming to Gilead, but during the last
five months they have had some excellent experiences in the field ministry.
We want you to observe some of these as we re-enact them and pick out the lessons that
might be helpful to you in your ministry.
To start with, we're going to see Brother and Sister Van Ling at a public witnessing table
by a bridge over the Hudson River in Pekipsi.
Give them your attention.
What makes a good friend?
Yes, hello sir.
What do you think?
What makes a good friend?
Oh, if he is honest, I think, and a good company.
You're absolutely right.
It's very important to become and make good friends.
Do you know what?
The Bible also has some very nice principles to become and make very good friends.
In fact, this magazine talks about it, and you can take a free copy if you want to.
No, no, thank you.
I've already read your magazines before.
No, thanks.
Oh, you're more than welcome, but may I ask you a question?
Yes.
I hear some kind of a familiar accent.
Where do you come from?
From Italy.
Isn't that nice?
We're also from Europe.
We're from the Netherlands.
From Netherlands?
Yeah.
It's funny because I just come back from a vacation trip there because my son is living
in Netherlands.
Wow.
Really?
We are living here just for a couple of months to receive missionary training.
Missionary training.
What a coincidence.
My son there in Netherlands is missionary for an evangelical church.
And he told me that he has quite often a contact with Jehovah's Witnesses.
And I think, yes, next week, he has an appointment with one of you.
Isn't that nice?
No, you can see.
We are all over the world talking to people about the Bible, Bible principles, and so if
you have any questions, please feel free to ask.
We would like to do, but you know, we are very busy for the moment because tomorrow we
will get married.
Really?
That is really amazing.
Congratulations.
You know, my husband and I, we are married for 21 years and we really enjoy that because
you know, it's nice to share things with each other, especially when it's spiritual
things.
Well, I do have a question.
I see you are wearing a wedding ring.
And so, do Jehovah's Witnesses wear it on their left hand, or are they right hand?
Well, you know, it has no special meaning, but what is important to us is that you apply
Bible principles in your life and that is really what makes the success of your marriage.
Oh, that's what we would like also.
Are you here often?
Well, we are here today, but we don't know when we will be back again, but you know,
we live not too far away in Patterson.
Ah, yes, I know your complex is Patterson, Wal-Kill.
I've already been there for business reason and I'm always amazed how clean everything
is there.
Well, that is nice, but if you like, you can come and visit us and we'll give you a tour
and if you have some questions, we'll answer them.
Okay, I know where Patterson is and we will try to do so.
Okay, I'll have to be one.
Thank you.
Have a nice day.
And we thank all of you for that fine reenactment.
Later, this couple did visit the table again.
Their first visit, they didn't find the vanlings, but on their second visit, they did,
and this time, they placed the Bible Teachbook with a couple.
Well, another appropriate occasion to give witness is working business territory.
In this reenactment, we're going to see Brother and Sister Herady
and how they were able to preach with success in an Asian food store
in spite of many customers apparently judging by the impatience of some of these customers,
this is a New York store.
Hey, this is nice shop.
So much is your food.
We are from Japan.
Do you have many Japanese customers?
Yes, time to time.
It's that store.
I'm sure they love this store.
Thank you.
Here you are.
I'd like to give you this invitation.
Next week, we will have a special convention about Bible at this address.
Thank you.
But sorry, me and my husband, we work in this store for a whole day.
We don't have any vacation.
We are so busy, so I don't think I can make it.
Okay, I see.
You are busy.
Are you Chinese?
No, I'm from Laos.
Wow, are you Russian?
Wow.
So now all the other customers are gone.
If you have three minutes, I have a show to video that I would like to show you.
Would you like to watch it?
Sure.
Now, early ocean lady, watched with close attention the video, why study the Bible?
Let's see how that conversation continues.
How do you feel about this video?
It's very nice.
It's my language.
Yes.
Do you think it would be good to think about these things?
Yes, I think so.
It's nice.
I would like to give you this draft too.
You think this QR code, you can go to our website, vcojw.org.
The ocean language is also available.
Really?
Even the ocean language?
Yeah.
Okay, I'll check it.
Okay.
Please enjoy it.
You can find so many good things in Laos and there.
No, brother and sister Rady didn't leave the store in their mind.
They were back to further that interest.
Let's observe next visit.
Today too, we buy this.
Okay.
By the way, did you check out that site?
Yes.
There are really many Laos and information.
I really enjoyed it.
Wow.
I'm glad to hear that.
But today you have so many customers, right?
Yes.
Today, I'd like to give you these magazines.
I choose these magazines for you.
Thank you.
Stress?
It's necessary for me.
I read it later.
Enjoy it.
Very good.
Brother and sister Rady, and by the way, they did get a different fish.
And they were also able to find a good news brochure in Laos and which impressed the
lady very much.
Familiar scriptures, Acts 20, and as we mentioned, that verse shows the primary way in which we
carry on our ministry, House to House.
While our Gilead students were alert to every upper appropriate occasion while in the House
to House of Industry, let's see how sister Cardoso's noticing the accent of her householder
led to a fine witness.
Good morning.
How are you today?
I'm fine.
Thank you.
Good.
My name is Jessica, and this is my friend Amber.
And we'd just like to share a nice thought with you from the Bible.
The Bible?
No.
You want to talk to my wife, but she is not at home today.
OK.
Maybe I can talk to her another time.
But can I ask you a question?
Do you speak Portuguese?
Yes, I do.
So do I.
Where are you from?
Mozambique.
Oh, I'm from Angola.
My husband and I have lived there for quite some time.
We're also from Africa.
Maybe I could bring him by sometime to meet you, would that be OK?
Sounds good.
OK.
Ciao.
Now, this man didn't seem particularly interested in the truth, but let's see what
took place with that bit of information, how it helped for the next visit.
Bondeia.
Bola.
My name is Orlando.
Hi.
I'm from Orlando.
I hear you're from Angola.
It's true.
I lived there since 1995, and my wife taught me that you are from Mozambique.
It's so good to meet someone here from another Portuguese speaking country in Africa.
Do you live here for a long time?
I am from Mozambique, but you're now for 20 years.
Oh, I can imagine, Fernando, you have been through a lot during your youth, you must
have seen the colonial war, the civil war, and a lot of broken promises.
Yes, many, many problems.
Have you ever wondered, Fernando?
Why God allows all this suffering?
You know, I think something is out there, but I do not know if it is God.
You must have given a lot of thought to it, and I'm happy to know that you believe that
there is something.
Wouldn't it be reasonable to believe that if there is a God, he would let us know about
him?
Let me share scripture with you.
And second Timothy, 316, says, all scripture is inspired of God.
So the Bible claims to be the inspired book of God, and the next time I would like to show
you what convinced me that the Bible is really a book of God, and I would like to show you
a brief video, why we should study the Bible.
What do you think, Fernando?
Sounds good.
See you next time.
Ciao.
No, Father and Sister Cardozo, how did this experience continue, and some interesting
side point?
After we spoke to him, we were able to go to the house and meet his wife, and we found
out that she's already studying the Bible with the Portuguese congregation, and she told
us while we were talking to him, she was looking through the window, watching us, and she
was hoping that her husband would show interest in the truth.
So she was very happy to find out that the conversation had gone so well.
So what happened when you went back, Orlando?
The next time we visited him, we were able to show him the why study the Bible video,
and I think it was a turning point.
From there on, he showed far more interest than we were even able to establish a doorstep
study with him.
Excellent.
And it's still progressing.
It's still progressing.
Thank you very much.
While doing our house to house ministry, we should not ignore people that we may meet
on the street.
It may be a fine opportunity to give a witness to them as well.
Now this is exactly what Sister Nielsen did.
Let's observe.
Hey, Amber, this woman looks Arabic, and I speak Arabic.
What do you say she'll be speaking to her?
Yes, absolutely.
Okay.
Peace be upon you.
Okay, thank you.
Our name is Kamila.
What's your name?
I'm Jamala Tasharraf.
I'm actually the reason why I stopped you is because I have this magazine that I would
like to present to you.
I can see that you are Muslim, right?
Yes.
Where are you from?
I'm from Yemen.
Oh, nice to meet you.
This magazine is about prayer.
We Muslims.
we pray five times a day. Thank you. Very nice. The conversation continues. Our
sisters make an appointment with Jamal to meet the following week and a few
visits later. They're into a Bible study in the Good News brochure. Let's look
in on one of those studies. So Jamala, after we read this scripture, don't you
think it's wonderful that God loves us so much? I never thought about that, but
this is all written in the Quran. I don't need the Bible. Okay. I know many Muslims
say this, but maybe I can ask you a question if you permit me. The Quran is
written for Muslims, right? Yes. So how would you feel if I as a Christian touched
the Quran? No, no, no. You cannot do that. Okay. But you see the Bible is for
everybody. So what it says here in the Bible that applies to you too. You can
hold it if you want. That means that God's thoughts about you are not of
calamity as it says in the scripture. He wants you to have success in life. And the
only way we can have success in life is to get to know God's personality. And when
we read in the Bible, we come to know His personality. This is the reason why we
go around and talk to people because in that way we can help people to get to
love Him. But I don't know. I don't think that's possible to to love God or to
get to know Allah. We cannot see Him. Yes, but think about this. Is it really
impossible for us humans to love someone that we haven't seen? What about all
those who write letters to each other? And they fall in love on the basis of
those letters, even though they live in two different countries, they've never seen
each other or those who fall in love on the internet. I mean, I don't
recommend it. But it does show. It does show that we humans, we are capable of
loving someone that we haven't seen, right? It's not safe to love someone on the
internet. But when it comes to loving God who's perfect and who only wants the
best for us, there's nothing safe for us humans. This is the only way we can
become happy. So when you study the Bible, you find reasons, so many reasons to
love God. And actually, next time we could take up the subject about God's name,
would you like that? That sounds so interesting. You made me think maybe I should get
to know the Bible a little bit better. Thank you, sisters, very much. And
Camila and Camila had many good studies over the summer, and that interest is
also continuing. At times in our House to House work, we find people that are
at the moment busy. How can we turn that into an appropriate occasion to
witness? Sister Chung, you had an experience with that. Tell us about it. In our
House to House Ministry, we've met a Chinese woman who cannot speak English
very well. And since she was working in her garden, she was very busy. So we
briefly explained the purpose of our visit and gave her the latest
magazines and made arrangement for a return visit. Okay, show us what happened
on that return visit. Mrs. Rose, thank you for inviting us come in. We
very nice to meet you again because last week you heard that you went to see
your daughter, right? Yes, she is pregnant, but the doctor said she could
lose this baby. I'm so bullied because she lost her first baby. You think that
about three years ago, my husband died. I'm so sorry to hear that. It's very hard
to imagine how could you deal with so many things. I'm so sorry. This is why
today we are here. You'd like to show you very encouraging, very comfortable
news from the Bible. Can you do that? Yes, actually, my daughter also going to
church every week and she gave me a big Chinese Bible, but I never opened it
yet. Oh, it's very glad to hear that you have your own Bible. Would you mind
bring out the Bible? This is convenient for you. Okay, let me see. Where it is?
Here it is. It's a really big Bible. It's really big. Thank you for bringing out this.
Mrs. Rose, have you ever thought about God has a name? God has a name? Yes,
everyone has a name. You and me also have a name. Likewise, God also has a name.
And Bible tells us what it is. So let's open the Bible, scripture, Psalms, chapter 83,
verse 18. Would you please read here? Okay, this is the very first time to open my
Bible and read it. May people know that you, whose name is Jehovah, you along
are the most high over all the earth. Thank you for a nice reading. Did you notice
the, what is the name of God? Jehovah, Jehovah, is this God's name? Yes, Jehovah,
this is the God's name. And the scripture keeps saying he along are the most high
over all the earth. It means he knows, he understands everything what we are
facing daily, including you and your family. And he really cares about you. So today I brought
a brochure. The name is Good News from God. He has good news for you. And this is a copy for you.
Thank you. And here, this brochure is very simply designed to help people to learn about God
and the Bible. And his second page tells us how can you benefit from this brochure? And how can
you find the scripture from your own Bible by yourself? So can we study together? I would love to.
Thank you, Sister Chung and your assistants. Sister Chung's kind manners, her readiness to use
the householder's Bible. Certainly on this occasion made the day. Well, on rare occasions,
we may find an appropriate occasion to witness even if we aren't the one to start the conversation.
Let's see what happened as Brother Nielsen. Dennis was returning to his car in a parking lot
after making a return visit. Hello. Hello. How are you? I'm fine with you. I'm fine. My name is
Dennis. This is Aaron. Do I know you? No. I'm just being friendly. Oh, that's so nice of you.
We don't meet a lot of friendly people these days. Don't you agree? Yes, but I think it's important
to be friendly. I agree. You know, we actually share a wonderful magazine with people about what makes
a real friend. That magazine is very interesting. My wife and I actually want to quit smoking.
Ah, you speak about the watchtower about God's view of smoking. Yes. That's a very good goal.
Yes. Want to do it because of our son. Want to change our lives completely. I don't want my son
to grow up with bad parents. We live in a bad way. We're so smoking. We're in his in our own health.
That's very good. You know, this magazine, it's going to help you. There's also a scripture in the
Bible that speaks about God's view of smoking. I think it will help you too. It's a second
Corinthians chapter 1 and verse chapter 7 and verse 1. Can I read it to you? Okay. Thanks. See,
it says, let us cleanse ourselves of every defilement of flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in
the fear of God. So this scripture says that if we should be acceptable to God, we should cleanse
ourselves of every defilement of the body. What do you think? Does smoking defile our body?
Yes. That's why I want to quit. And that's very good. And you know, knowing that God wants you to
quit smoking, that will help you to do it. But it seems like you're in a hurry. Yes. I'm waiting for
my wife who will live as soon as she comes. Ah, okay. So maybe I can just show you our website.
If you take the magazines on the back, you can see this QR code. If you scan it with your phone,
it will bring you directly to our website. Maybe Aaron can show you on his phone how to do it.
I'll be happy to show you. It's very easy, you see? You just scan the code and the webpage
appears automatically. Very easy. And you know in this website, you can find many good things from
the Bible about how to attain a happy family. And you said you have a son? Yes. And on this webpage,
JW.org, there are many nice videos for children. I'm sure your son will like them.
But Ivan, I would love to continue this conversation another time and explain to you what God's
promise for us is for the future. Could we do that? Yeah, welcome. I leave it number 89. Ah, thanks.
Thank you, brothers. Did you notice how quickly Dennis picked up on what interested the man?
Wasn't the article on stress, but the one on tobacco. He went back the following Sunday and was
happy to cultivate Ivan's interest even further. Well, at times, we call on a person that may have
showed some interest. And when we get back, we find a different member of the family. Could this
be a good opportunity to witness? Well, let's see what happened when brother and sister Kassush found
this situation. Come in. Hello. Hello. My name is Daniel. My name is Yustena. I'm Emmy. Nice
to meet you. Nice to meet you, Emmy. We see that you are very busy today. Oh, yes. You know,
we're three kids. It's a lot of work. Yeah, it's not easy. So we'll be brief. We've spoken with
your husband recently and he said that you're from Gambia. Am I right? Actually, he is from Gambia
and then from the USA. Where are you from? We are from Poland. And you know, we left your husband
with a question who really rules this world? What is your opinion? Oh, for me, that's clear. It's
Satan. Yes, you're right. And please, look what the Bible says about Satan's future here.
For his part, the God who gives peace will crush Satan under your feet shortly. Did you notice
what will happen with Satan? He will be destroyed? Yes, again, right. And please listen to the short
comment about his scripture. Empowered by God, Jesus will destroy Satan. Then God will rule mankind
and restore the human race to the life of happiness and peace he originally intended.
Did you do you think that is possible? Yes, actually, I am praying for the peace not only for my
family, but for others as well. It's wonderful. We see that you are very religious person. This book,
what does the Bible really teach, provides us much more information. It answers very important
questions what is God's purpose for the earth. So the next time we gladly show you the Bible-based
answer. And this book is for you. Really? Can I give it? Yes, you can. Is it really mine? Yes, you know,
I'm so happy to have this book. You know, my friend Brenda, she has this book and I know it speaks
about family life that the husband is the head of the family. Now, I'm so happy I have my own copy.
And we are sure you will make very good use of it. Sure. So is it okay for you if you come the
next Saturday, exactly the same time? Yes, sure. So see you on Saturday. And please say hello to your
husband, Mr. Sanku. I will. Goodbye. Thank you. Thank you. It's evident that when we try to witness
two different members of the family, we expand our territory. We increase the opportunities to
give a good witness. Well, now we're going to look at a situation. It occurs for all of us from
time to time, not the same situation, however. But informal witnessing also presents a fine
opportunity to spread the good news. We have a brother and sister, Sisaber. They used an
opportunity to witness when having breakfast in their hotel just before coming to Gilead.
So are you here to visit New York City? No, not really Fernando. We got invited to a
Bible school in Patterson. So today we are off of five months of studying the Bible to Patterson.
We're really excited and happy. Oh, that's interesting. Yeah. And how is it with you, Kamolatino?
Most probably you believe in the Bible and God, don't you? Yes, of course. I believe in God, but
you know, I have a little daughter and she always asked me, Papa, does God exist? How do you know
if you don't see him? You know what? I really don't know what to tell her. But I would like to give
some answer for her. I can imagine. It's not an easy question. You know, I have here a card. Look,
in this card, you would find a lot of very interesting response to your questions.
You would find also some downloads, but also you would find a page especially for the kids to
answer those kind of questions. You know, Fernando, I'm sure you would love it. Oh, especially for
kids. They have very beautiful animations on that page. They're short and they teach really
good lessons. I have even one here. Have a look. And shoppers, stop by our bakery for today's
special. Time to check out. No candy today. If you steal, will you be Jehovah's friend?
Do you want to be Jehovah's friend? Oh, this is beautiful. I've been looking for a long time
for some guidance for my family. And you know what? Just recently, we talked about it with my wife.
We feel very lonely and talk looking for a chance. You know, Fernando, you are more than
being venido any time in our kingdom halls here. Oh, I know one in Elisabeth. Yeah,
yeah, exactly. For sure, you find really good friends there. Why don't you just have a look?
It's without any commitment. Okay, I will tell to my wife about it. Thank you for the website.
And tonight, I will watch some with my family. Thank you. Thank you. Now,
brothers and sisters, the Saber had an unexpected result from this. Tell us about it.
Yeah, because of that conversation, another waiter approached me and I found out that he speaks Arabic,
so I passed him on to Karim. And then we started discussing Elisabeth. He realized we were talking
about God, so he was very interested. And as we happened to have some Arabic magazines,
so I give it to him. And as a matter of fact, the next day, he was flying back to Egypt to get
married. So he said, well, we chitchat at a bit. And then he took a lot of Arabic magazine,
and he took them to Egypt as a gift for his new family. Thank you very much.
Informal witnessing and have wide results. As beneficial as our demonstrations are at our service
meeting, generally, they're prepared, presented, and we learn much from them. However, what we saw
here were actual experiences reenacted. We hope that you've found some things that you can use
in your ministry, not just to take every opportunity to preach, but the lessons, how they did it,
where they did it. These will be invaluable as you too use every appropriate occasion to bear
witness. We certainly want to thank you, brother Samerson. That was most encouraging. I used to be
in karma up here. I didn't find anybody, but now I'm going to work harder. They're out there. We
just have to find them. For the next part, we invite brother William Nantes, who works in the
service department, to conduct an interview with two couples from this class of Gilead. The couples
are Harrison and Snellia Mosseko. I said that right, didn't I? And, of course, Dennis and
Camilla Nielsen. Brother Nalky's theme is, continue available for Kingdom of Service.
All who are invited to Gilead at present are already serving as special full-time servants.
It may be in the traveling work, Bethel service, or as-field missionaries. They have thus made
themselves available. As Isaiah 6.8 says, they've said, here I am, send me. They have also shown that
they wish to continue being available for Kingdom of Service because they've come to Gilead
and have gone through the course here. For a few minutes, we will be visiting with these two
couples, brother and sister Mosseko, Harrison and Snellia, served as Bethelites in Malawi, Bethel,
in East Africa. Brother and sister Nielsen, Dennis and Camilla are serving as field missionaries
with the Arabic-speaking group in Parma, Italy. And as we visit with them, we'll be asking first
some experiences from their former assignments, and second, how Gilead has helped prepare them
for continued availability for Kingdom service. Snellia, we'd like to talk with you.
We understand you were born while our work was under ban in Malawi. Tell us how long was the ban?
Well, the ban was from 1967 to August 1993, so it was about 26 years long.
And what was it like as a youth growing up and our work being banned?
Since I was born during the ban, to me life seemed normal. All I knew is we attend meetings at midnight
and we don't sing at meetings and we upload by rubbing our hands like this until 1993 when the
ban was lifted and then the first missionaries came. And right away I joined with them in
street witnessing, which I liked so much. Midnight meetings, we'll have to think on that.
But now we understand too that as you approach the end of school, you wanted to regular pioneer.
You turned in an application, you were approved as a pioneer, but you never took up the pioneer
service. What happened? So what happened is that a few months before finishing high school,
I applied to start regular pioneering in the math of September, that was 1996.
So while I was waiting for the approval, I would visit Bethel very often just to check if they have
wake or they need help or just to let them know that I'm available. So I'll do that many times.
So one day I was invited as a temporary Bethelite and by the time the appointment for regular
pioneering came, I was already in Bethel and which was my goal. I wanted really to say what Bethel.
And we're glad you've been there ever since. But Harrison, we understand you were born in Zambia
and yet now you're in Malawi serving. Can you explain? So in the 60s, before the work was banned in Malawi,
the Malawi branch was responsible for translating the Chichewa language publications,
which is the language that is spoken in Malawi parts of Zambia and parts of Mozambique.
Now when the work was under banned in Malawi, that translation department was moved to Zimbabwe
branch. Later it was moved to Zambia branch. It was during that time when it was in Zambia that I
joined the translation of the Chichewa team as a translator. And when the ban was lifted in Malawi,
it was decided that this team for the Chichewa language moves back to Malawi where it originally
came from. And so we moved altogether as a team in 1997. And in Malawi, I met my wife,
Nadia. And what joys have you had in Bethel service in Malawi in addition to gaining a wife?
Just as a translator sitting down every day and discussing God's word and various publications
of the faithful and discrete slave brings me a measurable joy in my heart. And so when the branch
committee invited us to apply for Gilead, we couldn't help but wonder how will this work,
how will this training prepare our hearts for the work that we have ahead and we just couldn't
wait to come. And Dennis and Camila, you hold the recently you've been serving as field missionaries
in Italy among the Arabic speaking group. Previously we understand you pioneered for several years
in Egypt while our work was under more severe restrictions at the time. You mentioned that there
were several occasions when you felt sure you saw Jehovah's Hand in Matters. Can you explain one
of those? Yes, one example of this was at a time we were in Denmark to work. And during that time
there was a very strong pressure from the government more than the usual. They would usually
tab our phones and they would send agents to follow us on the street. But at this particular time
they were doing many more things to disturb us. And in addition to that we also had a political
conflict that broke out between Egypt and Denmark. Because Denmark, a Danish newspaper had printed
some drawings that was offensive to the Muslims. So in the airport we would always be pulled aside
in the passport control and our bags would be searched in and out. But with this political conflict
we were very much afraid about what was going to happen. Maybe they would interrogate us.
And if they did that, which they had a good reason to run these circumstances,
it would really increase the problems for us. So I remember in the flight back we were praying and
praying to Jehovah for his help and wisdom to face this problem that we had. And then what happened?
You will not believe it. When we arrived in the airport a big surprise awaited us.
The whole computer system had broken down. And they just had to check all the passports manually.
So they couldn't see that we were supposed to be stopped and taken aside. So they just let everybody in
and that included us. Now more recently you've transferred into the field missionary work.
And this was a change from pioneering. What challenges has that presented for you?
For me personally, when you have to start living as a special full-time minister,
my obedience to Jehovah and the organization was put a little bit to the test.
Because there are some restrictions that you have to submit. And suddenly decisions that
me and Dennis, we would usually just do us personally. Now suddenly other people are making those
decisions for us. So there was some personal freedom that we had to sacrifice. And what can happen
is that one puts too much focus on the sacrifices and then forget about the blessings that comes.
So I learned that it was very important for me to be obedient and to enjoy, especially in the
beginning where it's maybe a little bit difficult. But I found out that you cannot serve as a special
full-time minister if you're not obedient to Jehovah. Dennis, how about you, especially with the
field being quite different from everyone around you speaking Arabic? Yes, I feel I've learned to
be satisfied with the place that Jehovah gives me in his organization and to have my heart
where my feet are. Because in the beginning when we came from Egypt to Italy, Egypt was a place
with a tremendous need. And in all my imperfection in the beginning I felt a little bit misplaced in
Italy. I was continually looking back. I felt that I could do much more in Egypt than I could do in
Italy. But with prayer and with study and with discussions with Camilla, slowly I started to realize
and learn that it's not really important where I served Jehovah. It's just important that I serve
him wholeheartedly where he wants me to be. We certainly appreciate these expressions that you've
shared with us. But now let's come forward to Gilead. How has it helped and assisted you to
continue being available for full-time service? Asnolia? Spending five months of deep Bible study
has reviewed areas in my service that I need to work on, especially on the wise use of time.
Before coming to Gilead, I used to feel that I had very limited time for deep personal Bible study
and meditation, especially after waking for the whole day. For example, Mondays,
after Monday night was our study, for me that was it. I thought I'm so tired, I don't think I can
study anything else. But the training at Gilead has actually helped me to see that I can do much more
because when we finish the Monday, the washed our study, we go back to the rooms. What do we do? We
study for an hour, two hours, sometimes three hours. So it's the same thing even for midweek meetings,
for example, Wednesday. Before coming to Gilead, I used to feel that I prepared for the meetings
and I've worked for the whole day. Now I am back from the meetings. I don't think I'll study
anything else. But the training here has helped me to see that I can still study something
because that's what we do. When we come back from the meetings, when Wednesday evening,
we study for an hour or more. So I can say the training has pushed my limits far beyond what I
thought I could do. So as a result, the quality of my relationship with Jehovah has improved.
Thank you. You caused all of us to stop and think about our own schedules.
And Camila, I believe there are a couple areas where you've benefited.
Yeah, I learned that it was because I obeyed Jehovah that I'm happy today because when we obeyed
Jehovah, Jehovah blesses us with joy. And before Gilead, for example, I had this wrong idea that
my joy was based on shifting circumstances. So for example, I would think I will be happy if this
and this happens to me. But this is not where our joy comes from. We just need to obey Jehovah
and become his friend. And it's not about being used by him either because Jehovah can use
anybody. As we've learned in our studies, he used Cyrus, Nebuchadnezzar, and some Roman
emperors, but they were not his friends. So being Jehovah's friend is really our biggest privilege.
And of course, here at Gilead, I've had also situations where I had to obey Jehovah because I'm Danish.
And as a Dane, we are not as social people as maybe people from the warmer countries like Italy.
Before Gilead, I would keep my social life at a level where I could handle it. But here at Bethel
and at Gilead, I have people all around me all the time. So I had been thinking, oh, I can't do
this, I can't do this, but I started to change my thinking. And I said to myself, I can do this
which Jehovah's help. And now after I've been here for five months, I love having people around me.
And I find that I'm very social. So it's like being a new person.
Thank you. And Dennis, what benefits have you reflected upon?
I feel I've learned to face challenges and problems more in Jehovah's way.
During the school, I have these aha moments where a light ball went on and I recognize some of the
situations that we discussed as situations that I had faced before, but I didn't deal with in the
best way. One example of this was before Gilead, many times when I didn't have a lot of results in
my service, I could get very discouraged. And the problem was that I focused way too much on
results. Of course, I knew that Jehovah doesn't view it this way, but I couldn't really get my
attitude changed. But then during Gilead, we have discussed this subject time and again. And
this has really changed my attitude to this subject. One scripture that really made a big
big impression on me was Sikharaya, or Sifanaya 317, because it says that Jehovah shouts with joy
over us when we do his will. And the application was for the service. And the application was that he
also shouts with joy when we in service, no matter what the results are. So if I'm in service and the
results aren't great, I should remember that Jehovah is shouting with joy because I'm showing my
love to him. And I should do the same. I should be so happy that he's sitting there shouting with
joy. Ererson, we're very interested in your comments. Going through Gilead for me was like having
a hard-to-hard conversation with a loving father, receiving commendation, as well as encouragement
to do well. We spent many hours looking closely at examples of faith, both in Bible times and
in the modern-day history of Jehovah's people. And each one of those men and women were a success
story, regardless of their circumstances in life. Abraham, for example, he went wherever Jehovah
told him to go and he did whatever Jehovah asked him to do. But does that mean that his life was
problem-free? No, he experienced heartache from things happening within his family, things that
problems coming from outside his family, yet did Abraham ever doubt whether Jehovah was still supporting
him or whether Jehovah would fulfill his promise to him? Hebrews chapter 6 and verse 15 says,
After Abraham had shown patience, he received this promise. Patient endurance with faith.
Gilead has really helped me to deeply appreciate these wonderful qualities. And with Jehovah's help,
we want to make our life a success story just like that of Abraham and other faithful servants of
Jehovah. And we know all four of you will as well as the other soon-to-be graduates of the 137th
class. We pray Jehovah's blessing with you as you continue to make yourselves available for
kingdom service. Well done, brother, knockies. And we certainly appreciate it here and from the
couples that you interviewed. We now invite you to exercise your legs and vocal cords by standing
and singing song number 94, content with God's good gifts based on James 117. That's song number 94.
Please be seated. Our concluding talk on the program will be presented by brother Stephen
Latin, member of the governing body. So please give your attention to this invitation. Observe
intently the birds of heaven. Have you ever found yourself amused or even amazed at an animal?
Has an animal ever taught you anything? Well, probably you would answer those questions, yes.
In fact, periodically, God's word encourages us to observe various plants, various animals,
and learn various lessons from them. For example, at Job 127, it says, ask please the animals
and they will instruct you. Proverbs 66, go to the ant, Eulazy one, observe its ways and become wise.
One more example, Matthew 628, take a lesson from the lilies. Notice how they grow.
Well, that's just a few examples. Now, during this discussion though, we're going to focus on a study
of birds. In fact, at times in the scriptures, either directly or indirectly, we're encouraged
to learn valuable lessons from birds. The Bible actually makes hundreds of references
to either specific species or to bird kind in general. And if you think about it, a lot of these
scriptures wouldn't even make any sense unless we were keen observers of the habits of these birds.
For example, Isaiah 38, 14, King Hezekiah made this comment. He said, like the swift or the thrush,
so I keep chirping. I keep cuing like the dove. That wouldn't make sense unless you knew something
about those types of birds. Or the psalmist at Psalm 102, 6 and 7. He says, I resemble the pelican
of the wilderness. I'm like a little owl among the ruins. I lie awake. I'm like a solitary bird
on a roof. As you know, Jehovah himself at times is likened to a bird. For example, in
Deuteronomy chapter 32, Psalm 91, he's likened to an eagle. Or what about Isaiah 31, 5? It says,
like swooping birds, so Jehovah of armies will defend Jerusalem. Sometimes the Bible outright
tells us to pay attention to observed birds learn valuable lessons. For example, open up to Luke
chapter 12, please. And notice what Jesus tells us here in this scripture. Luke chapter 12.
And please, let's take a look at verse 24. Here Jesus says, consider the ravens. They neither
so see nor reap. They have neither barn nor storehouse. Yet God feeds them. Are you not worth
much more than birds? Well, those at first word consider. That's really a command, isn't it?
It means to observe them, scrutinize, take notice of them. Go to Matthew chapter 6. Now here's
our theme scripture for this talk. A very similar scripture. But notice what Jesus advises in this
scripture. Matthew chapter 6, verse 26, he says, observe intently the birds of heaven. They do not
so see or reap or gather into storehouses. Yet your heavenly father feeds them. Are you not worth
more than they are? Well, interesting, isn't it? It's a beautiful illustration about how precious
God's people are to Him. And that's certainly as true of you dear Gilea students, how precious.
And we never need be anxious about how we're going to obtain life's necessities. But notice those
first two words there, observe intently. That means more than just a casual glance, does it? It means
to inspect closely to scrutinize carefully. And that's really what Jesus is saying here in this
scripture. Let's go to a Job chapter 12, please. We touched on this verse, but not going to read it
in this entirety. And very interesting what we're told here. Job 12, verse 7, your Job says,
however, ask please the animals and they will instruct you. Also the birds of the heavens
and they will tell you. So here under inspiration, Job is saying now, ask a bird and it will tell you.
Obviously you can't literally ask a bird a question and have it given intelligent answer.
This asking and telling obviously is figurative, isn't it? See, you ask by studying that bird carefully.
They tell by the lessons imparted to you as a result of that. Now, one specific type of bird
that we're going to talk about basically for the rest of our discussion, that we can ask
and have it tell us many valuable lessons is the geese. Now, we're going to talk about the geese. In
fact, we're going to identify and discuss briefly seven lessons to be learned. And we really feel
these lessons will be valuable for you dear Gilead students soon to be graduates. In fact,
for all of us, we can get these seven lessons. Now, lesson number one, as Jehovah feeds the geese,
he will definitely provide for you. In fact, that was a point Jesus made, wasn't it? Jehovah feeds
the birds. Now, it's true, they don't plant, they don't cultivate, they don't gather into a barn.
Geese couldn't even do that if they had the capability to do it because they don't stay in one spot.
They migrate, they move, but yet Jehovah feeds them all along the way, doesn't he? They will descend
to a pond, a field, they will dine on food and drink, and then they continue their journey.
And what did Jesus say? Remember what he said? In Matthew 626, you're worth more than birds.
All right, like even better, what Jesus said in Luke 1224, we read earlier, he said,
you are worth much more than birds. I like that extra word that's slapped in there and that to
scripture. So you're worth much more than birds. Jehovah does this for the birds, he's certainly
going to take care of you. So never doubt for a moment the promise of Jehovah through Jesus
that if you seek first the kingdom and that's what you're doing. See, you're spending your whole
life in doing that, that Jehovah is certainly going to provide for you. These other things
will be added to you. And that would be the food, drink, clothing, shelter, these things we need.
We'll be added. Scripture didn't say, maybe good chance probably. We'll be 100% guaranteed
no chance for it not to happen. In fact, open up to 1 Timothy chapter 5 and let's get an interesting
extended application of this familiar scripture. And I think it'll even give you a more conviction
Jehovah is certainly going to take care of you in every way. 1 Timothy chapter 5, please,
and let's read verse 8. It says, certainly, if anyone does not provide for those who are
his own and especially for those who are members of his household, he has disowned the faith and is
worse than a person without faith. Now, we know how we normally apply this. See, a father who doesn't
take care of his household members, he's worse than a man without faith. One translation says,
worse than an atheist. Now, that's pretty bad, isn't it? But have you ever thought of applying this
scripture to Jehovah in an extended application? Is he not our father? Are we not members of his
household? In fact, in 1 Timothy 315, it refers to us as being in God's household. We ought to know
how to conduct ourselves in God's household. Now, do you think Jehovah is not going to take care
of members of his household? I mean, this scripture we just read would actually be self-condimming
of Jehovah. See, he inspired the Apostle Paul to write this scripture, make it part of his holy
word. If he didn't apply it to himself in principle, this scripture would be self-condimming of Jehovah.
Never could that happen. Never has that happened as song number 60 in our songbook. It says,
he will not fail to care for all his own. And he has a perfect record, doesn't he? A perfect
record of doing that so never question this. But of course, we have to do our part. Now again,
if you think about the geese, it's true, Jehovah feeds the geese, but does he airlift the food to
them in mid-flight? No, they have to go down, they have to search for food, they have to fly back
up to the proper altitude, they have to resume their V formation and they have to continue their
journey. A lot of hard work, isn't it? But they do their part, Jehovah certainly does his. You
seek first the kingdom, then Jehovah is certainly going to actually do more than his part.
That's always the case, isn't it? What does that mean? Well, he's going to always provide all your
true needs, but actually he will provide some of your wants. That's how generous Jehovah is. Maybe
not all your wants, because then would be spoiled children, wouldn't we? And Jehovah doesn't want
spoiled children, see? We don't want to be a spoiled child. But he's so generous, not only
all your true needs, but even some of your wants. Well, let's get our second lesson.
As geese must fly in formation, you must always treasure and stay in your place in Jehovah's
organization. Now scientists have determined that the V formation serves two very important
purposes. First, it can serve their energy. Second, it enables the geese to keep track of every
bird in the group and respond quickly if the birds in the front change direction, speed or altitude.
See, they can respond very easily with that V formation. So they're able to not only migrate,
but they stay in formation and they help each other that way. Now, there might be an individual
geese who would prefer relaxing on some warm beach rather than exerting himself vigorously in this
cold high altitude, but to leave his place in that formation. That could be disastrous, couldn't.
Well, the same with you. You must treasure your place, stay in your place. Now, how do you do this?
Well, the watchtower sometime ago said two things are important. Of course, being obedient,
submissive to theocratic direction, but also staying busy in Jehovah's service. And there's two ways
we show that we are cherishing our place in Jehovah's organization. It's true, sometimes you may
think that direction coming from the organization will not work as well as maybe a personal idea you
have, but then you remember that personal idea hadn't been approved. And as we said, Jehovah blesses
obedience. If we think about ones who didn't cherish their place in Jehovah's organization,
you might think of Satan, of course, the demons, Azaya, King Saul, modern day apostates.
Now, they forfeited many blessings first and foremost, Jehovah's favor for not appreciating their
place in Jehovah's organization. In contrast, Jesus, for billions of years, he's appreciated his
place, hasn't he? So by being obedient, staying busy, then we are not only flying. You could say
we're flying in formation. Now, here's the third lesson we can get. As geese and flight often
hawk to encourage each other to keep going, you must be alert to encourage your brothers to keep
going. Now, let's talk about this for a moment. Apparently, according to ornithologists, they
hawk for several reasons, but one reason is to encourage those in the front to keep up their speed.
And actually what happens if the lead goose tires, he'll drop back in formation and that leaves
other geese in the front. See, and then now he's hawking to encourage them. So we take turns,
don't we? And encouraging each other to keep going, keep up our speed, don't give up, move ahead.
Like manner, there are many ways we can do that. See, we can do that by our expressions before and
after the meetings. We can do that by our comments during the meeting, our well-prepared talks during
the meeting, even our singing. Even though we may think our singing is not that melodious at times,
but more like that hawk we were talking about. But these are just examples of how we encourage
our brothers. Well, let's get a fourth lesson to be learned. And this is quite touching to
think about, according to eyewitnesses, if a goose tires and has to actually land,
observers have seen that two other geese go down with that one and stay with support,
protect that one until he's able to return to the flock. Well, similarly, you have deep affection
for your brothers and sisters, and especially in time of need. See, in time of need, say,
you're going to rally to support and protect these ones. If you notice a brother or sister,
and this includes others in special full-time service, if you notice someone who's wounded,
or sick, some way physically, emotionally, we know you're going to take the time to provide
practical assistance to help this one. In fact, we want to commend you in advance. We know you're
going to do that. See, you're going to support and rally and help these ones. It was a very interesting
experience in the watchtower. This was the August 15, 2005 watchtower talking about supporting
our brothers in time of need. But it was about a missionary and synagogue who studied with a young
woman, and that young woman had contracted HIV from her unbelieving husband. Well, after her
husband died, the sister was baptized, and she became our sister. But shortly after that,
her health failed, and she was hospitalized with AIDS. Well, the missionary sister stated,
the hospital staff did their best, but they were few and number. So volunteers from the congregation
supplemented what the hospital staff could do. But the sister, herself, the missionary sister,
said at times she even slept on a mat beside the bed of this new sister and helped to take care of
her until she died. Now, the hospital doctor in charge, he couldn't believe it. He said, I can't
understand this. Here you are. You're not even related to this person. You're not even from the
same country. You're not even the same color. And yet, here you risk yourself to help this person.
Why? Well, the sister explained that this is my sister. I love her. We're as close as if we had
the same mother and father. What a tremendous witness was given. And a watchtower ended up by saying
incidentally, there were no ill effects suffered by that missionary sister as a result of her loving
care of that new sister. Well, let's get our fifth lesson. When geese notice something strange,
you know what they do? They sound the warning. Similarly, we know that you're going to be alert
to sound the warning when appropriate. Let's talk about this. The awake had a little article
watching the world entitled guard geese. And it talked about how the US Army, quote, recruited
a gaggle of 900 geese to watch their communications radar and air defense equipment was located in
Germany. The spokesman for the command said, whenever geese notice something strange, they make a
lot of noise. And it's true. They have acute hearing. And if they notice something strange,
they make a lot of noise by hissing, honking, and flapping their wings. Well, similarly, like manner,
if you notice problems looming in the congregation, we know you're going to, in a spirit of
mildness, you're going to sound the warning. You're going to try to help. If you see, as mentioned
in Galatians 6.1, that a brother or sister has taken a false step before they're even aware of it.
In a spirit of mildness, you're going to try to readjust that one. And quickly, because you notice
the scripture said, if they take a false step, it didn't say steps. It didn't say a false path,
a false step. They're not even aware of it. You try to readjust them in a spirit of mildness.
Similarly, in the territory, we know that you're going to sound the warning loudly concerning
Jehovah's coming day. And in fact, it's urgent for all of us to do this, isn't it? Because in a fact,
you could say the sword of Armageddon has already cast a shadow, hasn't it? So we want to sound
the warning. Well, lesson number six. As geese can fly over very high mountains to reach their
destination, you must be able to overcome even lofty obstacles with Jehovah's help.
Sometimes even it looks like they're insurmountable. But with Jehovah's help, you can do it.
They awake, again, talked about geese some years ago. It said, possibly the greatest known recorded
height attained by birds in flight was that achieved some years ago by a flock of geese and
migration across the lofty Himalayas. All that, or at that time, the week says, scientists were
photographing the sun over India when they saw these geese flying in the formation at the height
of Mount Everest, almost 29,000 feet high. Amazing, isn't it? And then it was interesting that
we ended up by saying, can these high flying geese even fly higher? If necessary, the wake said
quite possibly they can. We really don't know how high they can go. Well, it's the same with us,
isn't it? We can overcome anything with Jehovah's help. See, if we rely on Him, as Isaiah 4031 says,
we can soar on wings like eagles, or adaptor for this talk, we can soar on wings like geese.
See, you can do it with Jehovah's help. Matthew 1720, Jesus said, with enough faith,
you can even transfer mountains. And we heard experiences on this program, didn't we? Of ones that
overcome different obstacles, even apparently insurmountable obstacles with Jehovah's help.
Now, one more lesson we want to get here number seven, as geese are monogamous,
you dear Gileus students who are married must remain strictly loyal to your mates. And it's
true, geese have one mate for life. According to ornithologists, if one of the pair dies,
the surviving goose might accept another mate, but usually they remain single. Well, very interesting,
isn't it? Characteristic of this creation of Jehovah. Well, in like manner, you 23 married couples
in our class. You are faithful. You are loyal to your mates. And we know you're going to continue
that way, and we commend you also for this. In fact, all 48 of you in the class are sterling
examples in loyalty, which is an essential quality for any Christian, especially a graduate
of Gileus. Micah 6, 8. Remember what the question is asked there? What is Jehovah requiring of you?
And then among the things listed to cherish loyalty. And that means more than just be loyal out
of sense of duty, or under compulsion, say, it means to relish, to highly value,
to cherish, see, it's more than just doing it because you have to do it. You love this quality,
see? And we know you're going to continue as loyal servants of Jehovah. So there we have seven
valuable lessons from this, just one creation of Jehovah God, just in quick review, as Jehovah feeds
the geese. Never doubt. He's going to fully take care of you. You're worth a whole lot more than
birds. Number two is geese must stay in formation. You must cherish and stay in your place
in Jehovah's organization. Three, as geese often hawk to encourage each other to keep going,
you must be alert to encourage your brothers not to give up to keep going. Number four,
touchingly, if one goose has to land, two, have been observed to go down and stay with that one
until he can return to the flock. So be alert because of your affection for your brothers to support,
protect, especially in time of need. Five, as geese sound a warning when they notice something strange,
be sure to sound that warning, but with a spirit of mildness in the congregation,
and especially in your territory. And number six, as geese can fly over very high mountains,
get to their destination, you can overcome any obstacle with Jehovah's help. And number seven,
our last one, as geese or monogamous, you must be strictly loyal to your mates.
Well, I'm sure if you made a study of geese, you'd come up with some more lessons.
More, in addition to these seven, we've discussed see. And these kind of lessons can make us wise,
can't they? Open up to Job, chapter 35, and notice what a lie he under inspiration had to say about
this. Job 35, please, verse number 11, here a lie he starts out, he says, he, Jehovah,
teaches us more than the beast of the earth. And notice this, he makes us wiser than the birds of
the heavens. And it's really true. See, this quote, wisdom of the birds is because of really,
they're being instinctively wise, Proverbs 30, verse 24. But see, your wisdom is a result of
prayerful effort, Jehovah's blessing on that effort. At Matthew 626, when Jesus said to observe
intently the birds of heaven, he didn't specify what type of bird did he? I mean, you can make a
study of stork, swallows, pelicans, peacocks, eagles. What about a woodpecker? Did you know a
woodpecker can strike his head 22 times a second on solid wood, not even get a headache?
You've got to be some valuable lessons to learn from the woodpecker. And then think about other
types of animals. You could make a study of all other types of animals that Jehovah's made,
and you could learn valuable lessons from them. And in the new world, you'll have plenty of time
to do that, won't you? You'll have plenty of time to study Jehovah's creation, learn these lessons.
But in the meantime, let's, in imitation of geese, let's continue to cherish our place in
Jehovah's organization and encourage each other to keep going as we continue our migration from
this old system of things to the new world, that new world comprised of the new heavens and new
earth in which perfect righteousness will dwell. When I was behind the curtain, I was beginning to
get an attitude because you didn't applaud like that. For me, I thought you were applauding for
brother let. What an outstanding talk brother let gave us. When I grow up, I'm going to give a
talk just like that. Now we have some greetings from near and far. We're not going to read everything
they said, but just tell you that they love you very much. And here they are, Bolivia,
Brazil. By the way, we had first missionary couple in 46 years present, Bulgaria,
one couple, one single brother, Central America, Central Europe, Chile, France, Georgia, Haiti,
Japan, Kenya, Korea, and not just the brothers there at the branch, but also 600 of your brothers
in prisons and their 11 greetings to you. Malawi and Myanmar, we have two couples from Myanmar here
in the class, Netherlands, Sierra Leone, Slovakia. That's quite a few that are interested in what's
going on here. Now we would like to introduce to you the 137th class of Gilead. The time has arrived
now for us to present diplomas to these beautiful brothers and sisters and to assist me we have
brother Kenneth Flodina, a helper to the teaching committee. And he does such a good job that we're
going to let him name these people and the country they're from and where they're going.
He's really a helper. A couple is Isak and Ruth Asava from Ethiopia and they're returning to
Ethiopia. And next we have Yaddi Binov from the Slovak Republic. He's being assigned to Bulgaria.
And this is Orlando and Jessica Cardoso from Angola returning to Angola.
Jinho and Suyong Chang from Taiwan returning to Taiwan. And this is Oliak and Juliana Chuprina from
Russia going back to Russia. This is a David and Esther Dantin from Belgium returning to Belgium.
Robert and Luba Delahi from Georgia, the country of Georgia, back to Georgia. We have now Seth
and Gina Fleming from Hong Kong and they're being assigned to South Korea. Jerry and Doris
Florencia from Papua New Guinea returning to Papua New Guinea. And this is Gorigey and Maria
Gogovi from Bulgaria returning to Bulgaria. We have with us here Duane and Amber Heaton. They're from
Canada and they're going to receive a special assignment in a foreign country.
Hajima and Aki Hariday from Japan being assigned to Myanmar. Sai and Nunu, Alwa from Myanmar returning to
Myanmar. Now we have with us Lovemore and Vim Bai Jumbaya from Zimbabwe returning to Zimbabwe.
Desmond and Amelia Jones from Sierra Leone returning to Sierra Leone.
Sifis and Carol Kalinda from Zambia returning to Zambia. This is Daniel and Yustena Kauswish from
Poland returning to Poland. This is Jocamo Mfei from Italy being assigned to Colombia. Who was that?
This is Harrison and Snolia Miseko from Malawi going back to Malawi. Dennis and Kamilia
Mielsen from Italy and they're going to receive a special assignment in a foreign country.
This is Simone and Serena Seman from Canada. They too will receive a special assignment in a foreign
country. Now we have with us Karim and Nadia Ciseber from Germany returning to Germany. Dalton
and Erica Timura from Brazil returning to Brazil. Michael and Edwina Van Ling from Netherlands returning
to the Netherlands. Asatra and Seraa Visasuk from Thailand returning to Thailand. It's a beautiful
class isn't it? Beautiful. Begods people. Go on with the brotherhood. Now we're going to invite brother
Orlando Cardosa from Angola and he's going to read a letter from the class to the governing body
and to the Bethel family. Dear brothers and sisters. A joke chapter 36 verse 22 reread,
look, God is exalted in His power. What instructor is like Him? These words hold the dear place in
our hearts. For the last five months we have seen with our own eyes how Jehovah is the best
educator. His instruction comes from many sources which includes you, our dear governing body and you
the Bethel family. We will forever thank Jehovah for the training you have imparted to us.
The living example of the governing body, your humility and modesty and conducting yourselves
as lesser ones has shown us that Jehovah is the one driving the chariot. And as you have repeatedly
told us in class, Jehovah is absolutely in charge of the organization. Your example reminds
us to direct all attention to Jehovah. You continually pour yourselves out as a drink offering
in behalf of Jehovah's people, earth-wide and still you lovingly set aside time to teach us
personally. For your limitless love and sterling example will be forever grateful. We will never
stop praying for you that Jehovah continues to strengthen you in your work as the faithful and
discreet slave. Our new friends here at Bethel have shared in instructing us as well. Your deep
personal interest in each one of us has not gone unnoticed. We were so nervous but from the day we
arrived you welcomed us into your family with open arms. Yes, we slowed you down in the food lines,
in the hallways and in the commissary, but you always met us with a warm smile reassuring us
of your love. Thank you for not only providing us with delicious meals, clean rooms and clothing,
but teaching us how to sew on buttons and remove stains from our ties.
And what a blessing to be here during the international convention season. To witness your love and
hospitality for the worldwide brotherhood. What an example you are to imitate. We will always
have fond memories of our time with you. Our instructors are truly gifts in man.
We were met each day with a hearty good morning, a warm smile, a thoughtful look and of course
a written exercise. By putting meaning into and taking us on an in-depth study of the Bible,
you have helped change who we are. The Bible is more alive than ever before.
How we enjoyed learning to stop and think in terms of Bible principles, practical ways to put
others ahead of ourselves and ways to imitate Christ by showing love to Jehovah's sheep.
You prepared us to expect challenges in our assignments and when confronted with tests of faith,
we will remember easy no possible yes with Jehovah's help. You freely shared with us your personal
experiences and listened to ours. The time we shared with you will always be precious to us.
We love you dear brothers. At Nehemiah chapter 2 verse 18, the Israelites responded to the
encouragement and training they had received by decisively saying, let us get up and we must build.
Through gildier training and to find example of the Bethel family, our hands have been strengthened
to stabilize the modern day worlds of Jehovah's precious organization. Jehovah brought us here to make
us strong, reliable and trustworthy for the work ahead. He has done his part. We are determined to
do our part and allow our grand instructor to finish our training. Your brothers and sisters
of the 137th class of Gilead. Certainly, I want to thank you, Brother Cardoso, for those thoughts
of appreciation from this beautiful 137th class of Gilead. He has been a good,
full and refreshing graduation of this class of Gilead. Our minds are bubbling over with enthusiasm,
love for Jehovah and appreciation for all that he does for us every given day.
Some of our thoughts may still be lying on just the surface of our minds. They have not penetrated
very deep within, but they will in time if we work at it. So we encourage you Gilead students,
especially to spike them down deep into your heart these thoughts of Jehovah. That takes repetition.
It's not something that just takes one blow, but it may take several blows in order to get them
down where you want them to be. It sort of reminds me when I was a young boy growing up,
we lived near the railroad. We lived on the other side of the tracks. But I could see the railroad
men working often, and they would be setting rails into the ties. They would have long spikes,
and it would take two men with hammers. One would strike the head of the nail, the next man would
strike the head of the nail, and it took several blows in order to get the nail fastened into the
spike. If it was not fastened tightly and deep, while when the locomotives would come over,
the rail, while then the rails would jump, and eventually the rail would fly off,
and there would be a serious train wreck. Well, we don't want any serious thing to happen to our
minds and hearts, but we want to make sure that we have the truth down deep within, and then the
devil is not going to be able to remove it from us quickly. We'll be able to put up a hard
fight for the faith. So we want you to think about these things that you've been learning for
the past few weeks here at the Gilead School. Take the time to spike them down deep into your heart,
and in order to remember the school, keep thinking about what you have learned
and let's you forget. Keep spiking. Let God's thoughts occupy your mind daily. It's not just a
one-time thing. You come to school, you go to your assignment, you forget what you've learned.
No, you need what you've learned. We all need what we learn. So we have to keep meditating
on these things regularly. Now this is a contrast with the people prior to the flood of Noah's
Day. For instance in Genesis chapter 6, verse 5, we're reminded of them, it's not good for us,
but it's a reminder. It says, every inclination of the thoughts of his heart was only bad all the time.
Now that's the way it was prior to the flood, but we want our thoughts to be good, thoughts,
not bad thoughts. Now we're not to conclude from this that bad thoughts will not enter the mind.
As long as we're imperfect, surrounded by an imperfect world, we're going to have bad thoughts
across the mind, but we have to push them out. Get rid of them right away. Don't let them
linger and fester and destroy our spirituality with God. Don't think seriously about wrong thoughts.
Remove them quickly. But the thoughts that come from God, we want to think seriously about them
regularly. Now we can't say that all the thoughts are extremely bad thoughts that come in,
even though they're not from God. Sometimes the thoughts are just human thoughts. They're not
God's thoughts, and that's what he told us earlier on in Isaiah that his thoughts are much higher
than our thoughts and his ways are much higher than our ways. So we can't to get around that,
but we want to work hard at thinking in a righteous way. And we have an example here in the
Bible. Now of course you students were not asked to bring your Bible up here. So just to sit there
quietly and listen. This is Matthew chapter 16. Now this was read earlier by one of the brothers,
and I thought then he's still in my thunder, but not really. He went off in a different
to vain. I'm taking you. But here in Matthew chapter 16 verses 21, 22 and 23, it says from that
time forward, Jesus began explaining to his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many
things from the elders and chief priests and scribes and be killed. And on the third day,
he raised up. At this Peter took him aside and began to review him saying, be kind to yourself,
Lord, you will not have this happen to you at all. But turning his back, he said to Peter,
get behind me, Satan, you're a stumbling block to me because you think not God's thoughts,
but those of men. Peter was not altogether bad. He was just off track a little bit,
and Jesus had to set him straight. Jesus knew that he had to die. Peter didn't understand that
clearly, but Jesus reminded him of that. That way he was thinking was not the way God wanted him to
think at the time. He's not thinking according to God's mind, but he's thinking according to
a fleshly way of thinking. He is parroting the thoughts of Satan, the devil. And that's the
reason why he tells him, get behind me, Satan. And of course, Peter took the counsel of the heart,
didn't he? And he was corrected. We should lay our thoughts alongside God's and we'll see that
ours will melt away into nothing, into insignificance and a hurry. Now we can think we're headed
in the right direction, but we're not. And we'll remind of that too in the Bible in Proverbs 14 12,
says there is a way that seems right to a man, but in the end it leads to death. So we can think
we're right when we're wrong. It's unwise on our part. Any one of us to follow our heart no matter
where it leads you. No, it can lead us into trouble and eventual death. You students have a lot
to think about. So we say to you meditate on what you put into your hearts in the days ahead,
follow God's thoughts and you will be a blessing. You'll be a blessing to your brothers,
but not only to your brothers, you'll be a blessing to many others. That's why we say,
think God's thoughts as much as you can. You good-looking people. Now it's time to share the
attendance with you if you've got your pens out. You're able to jot it down,
tablets, whatever you're using. Brooklyn, 3,096. Canada, 504. Jamaica, 97. Fort Lauderdale, Florida,
10. 10. There are brothers. They're tuned in. Patterson, 3,789. Puerto Rico, 113.
Wal-Kill, 3,024. Warwick, 1,700. Now add those up real quick. 12,333. Beautiful, isn't it?
Well, why don't you act like it is. Well, this is the last one. What is the last one? The song you
are now invited to stand and sing. Now wait a minute. It's the last one in the songbook.
Song number 135 and During to the Inn, Matthew 2413. And after the song,
Brother Stanley Weigel, who works with the U.S. Writing Desk, will lead us in our closing prayer.
Now song number 135.